[An Introduction to JavaScript](https://javascript.info/intro)

# JavaScript Engine

At present, JavaScript can not only execute in the browser, but also on the server, or actually on any device that has a special program called the JavaScript engine.

The browser has an embedded engine, sometimes called a “JavaScript virtual machine”.

Different engines have different “codenames”, for example:

	V8 – in Chrome and Opera, developed by Chrome in Denmark, open source
	SpiderMonkey – in Firefox, first JavaScript Engine, written in C++
	Rhino - Managed by Mozilla, open source, developed in Java
	JavaScriptCore - open source, marketed as Nitro and developed by Apple for Safari
	SquirrelFish -  For safari
	Trident and Chakra for different versions of IE
	ChakraCore - Microsoft Edge


# How do engines work?

1. The engine (embedded if it’s a browser) reads (“parses”) the script.
2. Then it converts (“compiles”) the script to the machine language.
3. And then the machine code runs, pretty fast.

The engine applies optimizations on every stage of the process. It even watches the compiled script as it runs, analyzes the data that flows through it and applies optimizations to the machine code based on that knowledge. At the end, scripts are quite fast.

# [What can in-browser JavaScript do?](https://javascript.info/intro#what-can-in-browser-javascript-do)

1. The modern JavaScript is a “safe” programming language. It does not provide low-level access to memory or CPU, because it was initially created for browsers which do not require it.
2. The capabilities greatly depend on the environment that runs JavaScript. For instance, Node.JS supports functions that allow JavaScript to read/write arbitrary files, perform network requests, etc.
3. In-browser JavaScript can do everything related to webpage manipulation, interaction with the user, and the webserver.

### For instance, in-browser JavaScript is able to:

1. Add new HTML to the page, change the existing content, modify styles.
2. React to user actions, run on mouse clicks, pointer movements, key presses.
3. Send requests over the network to remote servers, download and upload files (so-called AJAX and COMET technologies).
4. Get and set cookies, ask questions to the visitor, show messages.
5. Remember the data on the client-side (“local storage”).

# [What CAN’T in-browser JavaScript do?](https://javascript.info/intro#what-can-t-in-browser-javascript-do)

1. JavaScript’s abilities in the browser are limited for the sake of the user’s safety. The aim is to prevent an evil webpage from accessing private information or harming the user’s data.

### The examples of such restrictions are:

1. JavaScript on a webpage may not read/write arbitrary files on the hard disk, copy them or execute programs. It has no direct access to OS system functions. Note: Modern browsers allow it to work with files, but the access is limited and only provided if the user does certain actions, like “dropping” a file into a browser window or selecting it via an input tag.
2. There are ways to interact with camera/microphone and other devices, but they require a user’s explicit permission. So a JavaScript-enabled page may not sneakily enable a web-camera, observe the surroundings and send the information to the NSA.
3. Different tabs/windows generally do not know about each other. Sometimes they do, for example when one window uses JavaScript to open the other one. But even in this case, JavaScript from one page may not access the other if they come from different sites (from a different domain, protocol or port).

This is called the **“Same Origin Policy”**. To work around that, both pages must contain a special JavaScript code that handles data exchange.

The limitation is again for user’s safety. A page from http://anysite.com which a user has opened must not be able to access another browser tab with the URL http://gmail.com and steal information from there.

4. JavaScript can easily communicate over the net to the server where the current page came from. But its ability to receive data from other sites/domains is crippled. Though possible, it requires explicit agreement (expressed in HTTP headers) from the remote side. Once again, that’s safety limitations.

[Limitations](https://javascript.info/article/intro/limitations@2x.png)

Such limits do not exist if JavaScript is used outside of the browser, for example on a server. Modern browsers also allow installing plugin/extensions which may get extended permissions.

#[Languages “over” JavaScript](https://javascript.info/intro#languages-over-javascript)

Recently a plethora of new languages appeared, which are transpiled (converted) to JavaScript before they run in the browser.

Modern tools make the transpilation very fast and transparent, actually allowing developers to code in another language and auto-converting it “under the hood”.

Examples of such languages:

1. CoffeeScript is a “syntactic sugar” for JavaScript, it introduces shorter syntax, allowing to write more precise and clear code. Usually Ruby devs like it.
2. TypeScript is concentrated on adding “strict data typing”, to simplify the development and support of complex systems. It is developed by Microsoft.
3. Dart is a standalone language that has its own engine that runs in non-browser environments (like mobile apps). It was initially offered by Google as a replacement for JavaScript, but as of now, browsers require it to be transpiled to JavaScript just like the ones above.