# [Code editors](https://javascript.info/code-editors)

A code editor is the place where programmers spend most of their time.

There are two archetypes: IDE and lightweight editors. Many people feel comfortable choosing one tool of each type.

### [IDE](https://javascript.info/code-editors#ide)

The term IDE (Integrated Development Environment) means a powerful editor with many features that usually operates on a “whole project.” As the name suggests, that’s not just an editor, but a full-scale “development environment.”

For Example: [All of the IDEs are cross-platform.]

1. WebStorm for frontend development and other editors of the same company if you need additional languages (paid).
2. Visual Studio Code (free).
3. Netbeans (paid).

### [Lightweight editors](https://javascript.info/code-editors#lightweight-editors)

“Lightweight editors” are not as powerful as IDEs, but they’re fast, elegant and simple.

They are mainly used to open and edit a file instantly.

The main difference between a “lightweight editor” and an “IDE” is that an IDE works on a project-level, so it loads much more data on start, analyzes the project structure if needed and so on. A lightweight editor is much faster if we need only one file.

In practice, lightweight editors may have a lot of plugins including directory-level syntax analyzers and autocompleters, so there’s no strict border between a lightweight editor and an IDE.

The following options deserve your attention:

1. Visual Studio Code (cross-platform, free).
2. Atom (cross-platform, free).
3. Sublime Text (cross-platform, shareware).
4. Notepad++ (Windows, free).
5. Vim and Emacs are also cool if you know how to use them.