# [Garbage collection](https://javascript.info/garbage-collection)

Memory management in JavaScript is performed automatically and invisibly to us. We create primitives, objects, functions… All that takes memory.

What happens when something is not needed any more? How does the JavaScript engine discover it and clean it up?

# [Reachability](https://javascript.info/garbage-collection#reachability)

The main concept of memory management in JavaScript is reachability.

Simply put, “reachable” values are those that are accessible or usable somehow. They are guaranteed to be stored in memory.

There’s a base set of inherently reachable values, that cannot be deleted for obvious reasons.

For instance:

Local variables and parameters of the current function.
Variables and parameters for other functions on the current chain of nested calls.
Global variables.
(there are some other, internal ones as well)
These values are called roots.

Any other value is considered reachable if it’s reachable from a root by a reference or by a chain of references.

For instance, if there’s an object in a local variable, and that object has a property referencing another object, that object is considered reachable. And those that it references are also reachable. Detailed examples to follow.

There’s a background process in the JavaScript engine that is called [garbage collector](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garbage_collection_(computer_science). It monitors all objects and removes those that have become unreachable.

# [Two references](https://javascript.info/garbage-collection#two-references)

# [Interlinked objects](https://javascript.info/garbage-collection#interlinked-objects)

# [Unreachable island](https://javascript.info/garbage-collection#unreachable-island)

# [Internal Algorithms](https://javascript.info/garbage-collection#internal-algorithms)

`The basic garbage collection algorithm is called “mark-and-sweep”.`

	The garbage collector takes roots and “marks” (remembers) them.

	Then it visits and “marks” all references from them.

	Then it visits marked objects and marks their references. All visited objects are remembered, so as not to visit the same object twice in the future.

	…And so on until there are unvisited references (reachable from the roots).

	All objects except marked ones are removed.

## JavaScript engines apply many optimizations to make it run faster and not affect the execution.

Some of the optimizations:

1. Generational collection: objects are split into two sets: “new ones” and “old ones”. Many objects appear, do their job and die fast, they can be cleaned up aggressively. Those that survive for long enough, become “old” and are examined less often.

2. Incremental collection – if there are many objects, and we try to walk and mark the whole object set at once, it may take some time and introduce visible delays in the execution. So the engine tries to split the garbage collection into pieces. Then the pieces are executed one by one, separately. That requires some extra bookkeeping between them to track changes, but we have many tiny delays instead of a big one.

3. Idle-time collection – the garbage collector tries to run only while the CPU is idle, to reduce the possible effect on the execution.

There are other optimizations and flavours of garbage collection algorithms. As much as I’d like to describe them here, I have to hold off, because different engines implement different tweaks and techniques. And, what’s even more important, things change as engines develop, so going deeper “in advance”, without a real need is probably not worth that. Unless, of course, it is a matter of pure interest, then there will be some links for you below.

The main things to know:

1. Garbage collection is performed automatically. We cannot force or prevent it.
2. Objects are retained in memory while they are reachable.
3. Being referenced is not the same as being reachable (from a root): a pack of interlinked objects can become unreachable as a whole.

Modern engines implement advanced algorithms of garbage collection.

A general book “The Garbage Collection Handbook: The Art of Automatic Memory Management” (R. Jones et al) covers some of them.

If you are familiar with low-level programming, the more detailed information about V8 garbage collector is in the article [A tour of V8: Garbage Collection](http://jayconrod.com/posts/55/a-tour-of-v8-garbage-collection).

[V8 blog](http://v8project.blogspot.com/) also publishes articles about changes in memory management from time to time. Naturally, to learn the garbage collection, you’d better prepare by learning about V8 internals in general and read the blog of [Vyacheslav Egorov](http://mrale.ph/) who worked as one of V8 engineers. I’m saying: “V8”, because it is best covered with articles in the internet. For other engines, many approaches are similar, but garbage collection differs in many aspects.

In-depth knowledge of engines is good when you need low-level optimizations. It would be wise to plan that as the next step after you’re familiar with the language.

TODO: [http://disq.us/p/1wasp7l]

This is a very nice introduction of js garbage collection. Please consider adding a few more things if you want.
1. It is possible to force garbage collection in nodejs environment.
2. It is possible to use chrome dev tools to see how much memory has been taken.
3. Older IE doesn't use the mark-and-sweep algorithm and so "isolated islands" can cause memory leak, so whoever still needs to deal with those browsers will have to be careful with it do extra work to prevent it.
4. Javascript is single threaded (except when running web workers, etc.) and so even it is run during "idle time" it is still the same thread, so if the user does something in the middle of gc it may get a bit slow, so sometimes we still need to be consider the memory efficiency even with gc.
5. Weak map and weak set in es6 use weak references and so do not affect gc.

## Important Links -  Delete

1. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1947995/when-should-i-use-delete-vs-setting-elements-to-null-in-javascript

2. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/742623/deleting-objects-in-javascript

3. http://adripofjavascript.com/blog/drips/the-delete-operator-in-javascript.html

4. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/delete

