# [Symbol type](https://javascript.info/symbol)

# Symbols
“Symbol” value represents a unique identifier.

A value of this type can be created using Symbol()

## Symbols don’t auto-convert to a string

For instance, this alert will show an error:

	let id = Symbol("id");
	alert(id); // TypeError: Cannot convert a Symbol value to a string

If we really want to show a symbol, we need to call .toString() on it, like here:

	let id = Symbol("id");
	alert(id.toString()); // Symbol(id), now it works


# [“Hidden” properties](https://javascript.info/symbol#hidden-properties)

# Symbols in a literal
If we want to use a symbol in an object literal, we need square brackets.

Like this:

	let id = Symbol("id");

	let user = {
	  name: "John",
	  [id]: 123 // not just "id: 123"
	};

That’s because we need the value from the variable id as the key, not the string “id”.

# Symbols are skipped by for…in
Symbolic properties do not participate in for..in loop.

In contrast, Object.assign copies both string and symbol properties

Property keys of other types are coerced to strings
We can only use strings or symbols as keys in objects. Other types are converted to strings.

For instance, a number 0 becomes a string "0" when used as a property key:

	let obj = {
	  0: "test" // same as "0": "test"
	};

	// both alerts access the same property (the number 0 is converted to string "0")
	alert( obj["0"] ); // test
	alert( obj[0] ); // test (same property)

# [Global symbols](https://javascript.info/symbol#global-symbols)

For instance, different parts of our application want to access symbol "id" meaning exactly the same property.

To achieve that, there exists a `global symbol registry`. We can create symbols in it and access them later, and it guarantees that repeated accesses by the same name return exactly the same symbol.

In order to create or read a symbol in the registry, use Symbol.for(key).

That call checks the global registry, and if there’s a symbol described as key, then returns it, otherwise creates a new symbol Symbol(key) and stores it in the registry by the given key.

For instance:

	 // read from the global registry
	let id = Symbol.for("id"); // if the symbol did not exist, it is created

	// read it again
	let idAgain = Symbol.for("id");

	// the same symbol
	alert( id === idAgain ); // true

Symbols inside the registry are called global symbols. If we want an application-wide symbol, accessible everywhere in the code – that’s what they are for.

### That sounds like Ruby

	In some programming languages, like Ruby, there’s a single symbol per name.
	In JavaScript, as we can see, that’s right for global symbols.

# [Symbol.keyFor](https://javascript.info/symbol#symbol-keyfor)

For global symbols, not only Symbol.for(key) returns a symbol by name, but there’s a reverse call: Symbol.keyFor(sym), that does the reverse: returns a name by a global symbol.

For instance:

	let sym = Symbol.for("name");
	let sym2 = Symbol.for("id");

	// get name from symbol
	alert( Symbol.keyFor(sym) ); // name
	alert( Symbol.keyFor(sym2) ); // id

The Symbol.keyFor internally uses the global symbol registry to look up the key for the symbol. So it doesn’t work for non-global symbols. If the symbol is not global, it won’t be able to find it and return undefined.

For instance:

	alert( Symbol.keyFor(Symbol.for("name")) ); // name, global symbol

	alert( Symbol.keyFor(Symbol("name2")) ); // undefined, the argument isn't a global symbol

# [System symbols](https://javascript.info/symbol#system-symbols)

There exist many “system” symbols that JavaScript uses internally, and we can use them to fine-tune various aspects of our objects.

They are listed in the specification in the [Well-known symbols table](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-well-known-symbols):

	Symbol.hasInstance
	Symbol.isConcatSpreadable
	Symbol.iterator
	Symbol.toPrimitive
…and so on.

For instance, Symbol.toPrimitive allows us to describe object to primitive conversion. We’ll see its use very soon.

Other symbols will also become familiar when we study the corresponding language features.

# [Summary](https://javascript.info/symbol#summary)

