# [Conditional operators: if, '?'](https://javascript.info/ifelse)

	It is recommended to wrap your code block with curly braces {} every time with if, even if there is only one statement. That improves readability.

## [Boolean conversion](https://javascript.info/ifelse#boolean-conversion)

	A number 0, an empty string "", null, undefined and NaN become false. Because of that they are called “falsy” values.
	Other values become true, so they are called “truthy”.


For example:

	let accessAllowed = (age > 18) ? true : false;

Technically, we can omit parentheses around age > 18. The question mark operator has a low precedence. It executes after the comparison >, so that’ll do the same:

	// the comparison operator "age > 18" executes first anyway
	// (no need to wrap it into parentheses)
	let accessAllowed = age > 18 ? true : false;

But parentheses make the code more readable, so it’s recommended to use them.

## [Multiple ‘?’](https://javascript.info/ifelse#multiple)

	let age = prompt('age?', 18);

	let message = (age < 3) ? 'Hi, baby!' :
	  (age < 18) ? 'Hello!' :
	  (age < 100) ? 'Greetings!' :
	  'What an unusual age!';

	alert( message );

## [Non-traditional use of ‘?’](https://javascript.info/ifelse#multiple)

_Sometimes the question mark ? is used as a replacement for if:_

	let company = prompt('Which company created JavaScript?', '');

	(company == 'Netscape') ?
	   alert('Right!') : alert('Wrong.');

**It is not recommended to use the question mark operator in this way.**

The idea of a question mark ? is to return one or another value depending on the condition. Please use it for exactly that. There is if to execute different branches of the code.