# [Functions](https://javascript.info/function-basics)

## Function Declaration

To create a function we can use a function declaration.

It looks like this:

	function showMessage() {
	  alert( 'Hello everyone!' );
	}

### Features
1. Avoid Code Duplication

## Local variables
A variable declared inside a function is only visible inside that function.

	function showMessage() {
	  let message = "Hello, I'm JavaScript!"; // local variable

	  alert( message );
	}

	showMessage(); // Hello, I'm JavaScript!

	alert( message ); // <-- Error! The variable is local to the function

## Outer variables
A function can access an outer variable as well, for example:

	let userName = 'John';

	function showMessage() {
	  let message = 'Hello, ' + userName;
	  alert(message);
	}

	showMessage(); // Hello, John

The function has full access to the outer variable. `It can modify it as well.`

For instance:

	let userName = 'John';

	function showMessage() {
	  userName = "Bob"; // (1) changed the outer variable

	  let message = 'Hello, ' + userName;
	  alert(message);
	}

	alert( userName ); // John before the function call

	showMessage();

	alert( userName ); // Bob, the value was modified by the function

The outer variable is only used if there’s no local one. So an occasional modification may happen if we forget let.

If a same-named variable is declared inside the function then it shadows the outer one. For instance, in the code below the function uses the local userName. The outer one is ignored:

	let userName = 'John';

	function showMessage() {
	  let userName = "Bob"; // declare a local variable

	  let message = 'Hello, ' + userName; // Bob
	  alert(message);
	}

	// the function will create and use its own userName
	showMessage();

	alert( userName ); // John, unchanged, the function did not access the outer variable

`Global variables`

Variables declared outside of any function, such as the outer `userName` in the code above, are called global.

Global variables are visible from any function (unless shadowed by locals).

Usually, a function declares all variables specific to its task. Global variables only store project-level data, so when it’s important that these variables are accesible from anywhere. `Modern code has few or no globals`. Most variables reside in their functions.


## [Parameters](https://javascript.info/function-basics#parameters)

We can pass arbitrary data to functions using parameters (also called `function arguments`) .

Here’s one more example: we have a variable from and pass it to the function. Please note: the function changes from, but the change is not seen outside, because a function always gets a copy of the value:


	function showMessage(`from`, text) {

	  `from` = '*' + from + '*'; // make "from" look nicer

	  alert( `from` + ': ' + text );//from is local copy
	}

	let from = "Ann";

	showMessage(from, "Hello"); // *Ann*: Hello

	// the value of "from" is the same, the function modified a local copy
	alert( from ); // Ann


## [Default values](https://javascript.info/function-basics#default-values)

If a parameter is not provided, then its value becomes undefined.

For instance, the aforementioned function showMessage(from, text) can be called with a single argument:

	showMessage("Ann");

That’s not an error. Such a call would output "Ann: undefined". There’s no text, so it’s assumed that text === undefined.

If we want to use a “default” text in this case, then we can specify it after =:

	function showMessage(from, text = "no text given") {
	  alert( from + ": " + text );
	}

	showMessage("Ann"); // Ann: no text given

Now if the text parameter is not passed, it will get the value "no text given"

Here "no text given" is a string, but it can be a more complex expression, which is only evaluated and assigned if the parameter is missing. So, this is also possible:

	function showMessage(from, text = anotherFunction()) {
	  // anotherFunction() only executed if no text given
	  // its result becomes the value of text
	}


## Default parameters old-style

Old editions of JavaScript did not support default parameters. So there are alternative ways to support them, that you can find mostly in the old scripts.

For instance, an explicit check for being undefined:


	function showMessage(from, text) {
	  if (text === undefined) {
	    text = 'no text given';
	  }

	  alert( from + ": " + text );
	}

…Or the || operator:

	function showMessage(from, text) {
	  // if text is falsy then text gets the "default" value
	  text = text || 'no text given';
	  ...
	}

## [Returning a value](https://javascript.info/function-basics#returning-a-value)

A function can return a value back into the calling code as the result.

The simplest example would be a function that sums two values:

Example 1:

	function sum(a, b) {
	  return a + b;
	}
	let result = sum(1, 2);
	alert( result ); // 3

Example 2:

	function checkAge(age) {
	  if (age > 18) {
	    return true;
	  } else {
	    return confirm('Do you have permission from your parents?');
	  }
	}
	let age = prompt('How old are you?', 18);
	if ( checkAge(age) ) {
	  alert( 'Access granted' );
	} else {
	  alert( 'Access denied' );
	}

Example 3:

	function showMovie(age) {
	  if ( !checkAge(age) ) {
	    return;
	  }
	  alert( "Showing you the movie" ); // (*)
	  // ...
	}

# A function with an empty return or without it returns undefined

If a function does not return a value, it is the same as if it returns undefined:

	function doNothing() { /* empty */ }
	alert( doNothing() === undefined ); // true

### An empty return is also the same as return undefined:

	function doNothing() {
	  return;
	}
	alert( doNothing() === undefined ); // true

## Never add a newline between return and the value

For a long expression in return, it might be tempting to put it on a separate line, like this:

	return
	 (some + long + expression + or + whatever * f(a) + f(b))

That doesn’t work, because JavaScript assumes a semicolon after return. That’ll work the same as:

	return;
	 (some + long + expression + or + whatever * f(a) + f(b))

So, it effectively becomes an empty return. We should put the value on the same line instead.

## [Naming a function](https://javascript.info/function-basics#function-naming)

Functions are actions. So their name is usually a verb. It should be brief, as accurate as possible and describe what the function does, so that someone reading the code gets an indication of what the function does.

It is a widespread practice to start a function with a verbal prefix which vaguely describes the action. There must be an agreement within the team on the meaning of the prefixes.

For instance, functions that start with "show" usually show something.

Function starting with…

	"get…" – return a value,
	"calc…" – calculate something,
	"create…" – create something,
	"check…" – check something and return a boolean, etc.

Examples of such names:

	showMessage(..)     // shows a message
	getAge(..)          // returns the age (gets it somehow)
	calcSum(..)         // calculates a sum and returns the result
	createForm(..)      // creates a form (and usually returns it)
	checkPermission(..) // checks a permission, returns true/false

## One function – one action

A function should do exactly what is suggested by its name, no more.

Two independent actions usually deserve two functions, even if they are usually called together (in that case we can make a 3rd function that calls those two).

A few examples of breaking this rule:

1. getAge – would be bad if it shows an alert with the age (should only get).
2. createForm – would be bad if it modifies the document, adding a form to it (should only create it and return).
3. checkPermission – would be bad if displays the access granted/denied message (should only perform the check and return the result).


These examples assume common meanings of prefixes. What they mean for you is determined by you and your team. Maybe it’s pretty normal for your code to behave differently. But you should have a firm understanding of what a prefix means, what a prefixed function can and cannot do. All same-prefixed functions should obey the rules. And the team should share the knowledge.


## Ultrashort function names

Functions that are used very often sometimes have ultrashort names.

For example, 

`the jQuery framework defines a function with $.` 

`The LoDash library has its core function named _.`

These are exceptions. Generally functions names should be concise and descriptive.

## [Functions == Comments](https://javascript.info/function-basics#functions-comments)

Functions should be short and do exactly one thing. If that thing is big, maybe it’s worth it to split the function into a few smaller functions. Sometimes following this rule may not be that easy, but it’s definitely a good thing.

A separate function is not only easier to test and debug – its very existence is a great comment!

For instance, compare the two functions showPrimes(n) below. Each one outputs prime numbers up to n.

The first variant uses a label:

	function showPrimes(n) {
	  nextPrime: for (let i = 2; i < n; i++) {
	    for (let j = 2; j < i; j++) {
	      if (i % j == 0) continue nextPrime;
	    }
	    alert( i ); // a prime
	  }
	}

The second variant uses an additional function isPrime(n) to test for primality:

	function showPrimes(n) {
	  for (let i = 2; i < n; i++) {
	    if (!isPrime(i)) continue;
	    alert(i);  // a prime
	  }
	}
	function isPrime(n) {
	  for (let i = 2; i < n; i++) {
	    if ( n % i == 0) return false;
	  }
	  return true;
	}

The second variant is easier to understand, isn’t it? Instead of the code piece we see a name of the action (isPrime). Sometimes people refer to such code as `self-describing`.

So, functions can be created even if we don’t intend to reuse them. They structure the code and make it readable.