# [Data types](https://javascript.info/types)

A variable in JavaScript can contain any data. A variable can at one moment be a string and later receive a numeric value:

// no error

let message = "hello";

message = 123456;

__Programming languages that allow such things are called “dynamically typed”, meaning that there are data types, but variables are not bound to any of them.__

## Seven Basic Data types

There are seven basic data types in JavaScript.

	number for numbers of any kind: integer or floating-point.
	string for strings. A string may have one or more characters, there’s no separate single-character type.
	boolean for true/false.
	null for unknown values – a standalone type that has a single value null.
	undefined for unassigned values – a standalone type that has a single value undefined.
	object for more complex data structures.
	symbol for unique identifiers.


### [A number](https://javascript.info/types#a-number)

1. The number type serves both for integer and floating point numbers.
2. There are many operations for numbers, e.g. multiplication, division, addition, subtraction and so on.

3. Besides regular numbers, there are so-called __“special numeric values”__ which also belong to that type: Infinity, -Infinity and NaN.

Note:
1. NaN represents a computational error. It is a result of an incorrect or an undefined mathematical operation,
2. NaN is sticky. Any further operation on NaN would give NaN
3. Infinity represents the mathematical Infinity ∞.
4. Special numeric values formally belong to the “number” type. Of course they are not numbers in a common sense of this word.

### [A string](https://javascript.info/types#a-string)

In JavaScript, there are 3 types of quotes.

Double quotes: "Hello".

Single quotes: 'Hello'.

Backticks: `Hello`.

Double and single quotes are “simple” quotes. There’s no difference between them in JavaScript.

Backticks are “extended functionality” quotes. They allow us to embed variables and expressions into a string by wrapping them in ${…}, for example:

### [A boolean (logical type)](https://javascript.info/types#a-boolean-logical-type)

The boolean type has only two values: true and false.

This type is commonly used to store yes/no values: true means “yes, correct”, and false means “no, incorrect”.

__Boolean values also come as a result of comparisons__

### [The “null” value](https://javascript.info/types#the-null-value)

The special null value does not belong to any type of those described above.

In JavaScript null is not a “reference to a non-existing object” or a “null pointer” like in some other languages.

It’s just a special value which has the sense of “nothing”, “empty” or “value unknown”.

### [The “undefined” value](https://javascript.info/types#the-undefined-value)

The special value undefined stands apart. It makes a type of its own, just like null.

The meaning of undefined is “value is not assigned”.

If a variable is declared, but not assigned, then its value is exactly undefined

__Technically, it is possible to assign undefined to any variable...But it’s not recommended to do that. Normally, we use null to write an “empty” or an “unknown” value into the variable, and undefined is only used for checks, to see if the variable is assigned or similar__

### [Objects and Symbols](https://javascript.info/types#objects-and-symbols)

__The object type is special.__

All other types are called “primitive”, because their values can contain only a single thing (be it a string or a number or whatever). In contrast, objects are used to store collections of data and more complex entities.

The `symbol` type is used to create unique identifiers for objects. We have to mention it here for completeness, but it’s better to study them after objects.

### [The typeof operator](https://javascript.info/types#type-typeof)

The typeof operator returns the type of the argument. It’s useful when we want to process values of different types differently, or just want to make a quick check.

It supports two forms of syntax:

	As an operator: typeof x.
	Function style: typeof(x).

The call to typeof x returns a string with the type name

Example:

	typeof undefined // "undefined"
	typeof 0 // "number"
	typeof true // "boolean"
	typeof "foo" // "string"
	typeof Symbol("id") // "symbol"
	typeof Math // "object"  (1)
	typeof null // "object"  (2)
	typeof alert // "function"  (3)

## Notes:

1. The result of typeof null is "object". That’s wrong. It is an officially recognized error in typeof, kept for compatibility. Of course, null is not an object. It is a special value with a separate type of its own. So, again, that’s an error in the language.

2. The result of typeof alert is "function", because alert is a function of the language. We’ll study functions in the next chapters, and we’ll see that there’s no special “function” type in the language. Functions belong to the object type. But typeof treats them differently. Formally, it’s incorrect, but very convenient in practice.

### []()

## Note:

### Mathematical operations are safe

Doing maths is safe in JavaScript. We can do anything: divide by zero, treat non-numeric strings as numbers, etc.

The script will never stop with a fatal error (“die”). At worst we’ll get NaN as the result.

### There is no character type.

In some languages, there is a special “character” type for a single character. For example, in the C language and in Java it is char.

In JavaScript, there is no such type. There’s only one type: string. A string may consist of only one character or many of them.

	For null returns "object" – that’s an error in the language, it’s not an object in fact.


### [Task](https://javascript.info/types#string-quotes)