# [Type Conversions](https://javascript.info/type-conversions)

Most of the time, operators and functions automatically convert a value to the right type. That’s called “type conversion”.

For example, alert automatically converts any value to a string to show it. Mathematical operations convert values to numbers.

There are also cases when we need to explicitly convert a value to put things right.

## [String(value)](https://javascript.info/type-conversions#tostring)

String conversion happens when we need the string form of a value.

For example, alert(value) does it to show the value.

We can also use a call String(value) function for that:

## [Number(value)](https://javascript.info/type-conversions#tonumber)

Numeric conversion happens in mathematical functions and expressions automatically.

For example, when division / is applied to non-numbers:

	alert( "6" / "2" ); // 3, strings are converted to numbers

We can use a Number(value) function to explicitly convert a value:

Explicit conversion is usually required when we read a value from a string-based source like a text form, but we expect a number to be entered.

If the string is not a valid number, the result of such conversion is NaN

## Numeric conversion rules:

Value		    ->	Becomes…

undefined		->	NaN

null			->	0

true and false	->	1 and 0

string			->	__Whitespaces from the start and the end are removed. Then, if the remaining string is 					 empty, the result is 0. Otherwise, the number is “read” from the string. An error 						gives NaN.__

**Please note that null and undefined behave differently here: null becomes a zero, while undefined becomes NaN.**

## Addition ‘+’ concatenates strings

Almost all mathematical operations convert values to numbers. With a notable exception of the addition +. If one of the added values is a string, then another one is also converted to a string.

## [Boolean(value)](https://javascript.info/type-conversions#toboolean)


Boolean conversion is the simplest one.

It happens in logical operations (later we’ll meet condition tests and other kinds of them), but also can be performed manually with the call of Boolean(value).

The conversion rule:

	Values that are intuitively “empty”, like 0, an empty string, null, undefined and NaN become false. 
	Other values become true.__
	Negative numbers become true in Boolean Conversion

Please note: 

	the string with zero "0" is true
	Some languages (namely PHP) treat "0" as false. But in JavaScript a non-empty string is always true.

// spaces, also true (any non-empty string is true)

### The notable exceptions where people usually make mistakes are:

	undefined is NaN as a number, not 0.
	"0" and space-only strings like " " are true as a boolean.


## Important Task

1. "" - 1 + 0 = -1 
	The subtraction - (like most math operations) only works with numbers, it converts an empty string "" to 0

2. true + false = 1

3. " -9\n" - 5 = -14

In both console.log (tested in Node) and alert (tested in Chrome), the following happens:
The '/n' is interpreted as a new line character. The new line character is considered white space. When a string is coerced to a number, which is what happens here because we are subtracting 5 from a string, the coercion strips leading and trailing white space, which gives the string "-9", and that is converted to number -9. And -9-5 = -14 [http://disq.us/p/1jyirun]