# [Operators](https://javascript.info/operators)

## [Terms: “unary”, “binary”, “operand”](https://javascript.info/operators#terms-unary-binary-operand)

## [Strings concatenation, binary +](https://javascript.info/operators#terms-unary-binary-operand)

Note that if any of the operands is a string, then the other one is converted to a string too.

See, it doesn’t matter whether the first operand is a string or the second one. The rule is simple: if either operand is a string, then convert the other one into a string as well.

However, note that operations run from left to right. If there are two numbers followed by a string, the numbers will be added before being converted to a string

String concatenation and conversion is a special feature of the binary plus +. Other arithmetic operators work only with numbers. They always convert their operands to numbers.

	alert( 2 - '1' ); // 1
	alert( '6' / '2' ); // 3

## [Numeric conversion, unary +](https://javascript.info/operators#numeric-conversion-unary)

The plus + exists in two forms. The binary form that we used above and the unary form.

The unary plus or, in other words, the plus operator + applied to a single value, doesn’t do anything with numbers, but if the operand is not a number, then it is converted into it.

	// No effect on numbers
	let x = 1;
	alert( +x ); // 1

	let y = -2;
	alert( +y ); // -2

	// Converts non-numbers
	alert( +true ); // 1
	alert( +"" );   // 0

__It actually does the same as Number(...), but is shorter.__

A need to convert strings to numbers arises very often. For example, if we are getting values from HTML form fields, then they are usually strings.

What if we want to sum them?

The binary plus would add them as strings:

	let apples = "2";
	let oranges = "3";
	alert( apples + oranges ); // "23", the binary plus concatenates strings

If we want to treat them as numbers, then we can convert and then sum:

	let apples = "2";
	let oranges = "3";

	// both values converted to numbers before the binary plus
	alert( +apples + +oranges ); // 5

	// the longer variant
	// alert( Number(apples) + Number(oranges) ); // 5


## [Operators precedence](https://javascript.info/operators#operators-precedence)

There are many operators in JavaScript. Every operator has a corresponding precedence number. The one with the bigger number executes first. If the precedence is the same, the execution order is from left to right.

[Precedence Table](https://javascript.info/operators#operators-precedence)

## [Assignment = Operator](https://javascript.info/operators#assignment)

Let’s note that an assignment `=` is also an operator. It is listed in the precedence table with the very low priority of 3

It is possible to chain assignments:

	let a, b, c;

	a = b = c = 2 + 2;

	alert( a ); // 4
	alert( b ); // 4
	alert( c ); // 4

Chained assignments evaluate from right to left. First the rightmost expression 2 + 2 is evaluated then assigned to the variables on the left: c, b and a. At the end, all variables share a single value.

`The assignment operator "=" returns a value`

## [Remainder %](https://javascript.info/operators#remainder)

	The result of a % b is the remainder of the integer division of a by b.

## [Exponentiation `**`](https://javascript.info/operators#exponentiation)

The exponentiation operator ** is a recent addition to the language.

For a natural number b, the result of a ** b is a multiplied by itself b times.

	alert( 2 ** 2 ); // 4  (2 * 2)
	alert( 2 ** 3 ); // 8  (2 * 2 * 2)
	alert( 2 ** 4 ); // 16 (2 * 2 * 2 * 2)

The operator works for non-integer numbers of a and b as well, for instance:

	alert( 4 ** (1/2) ); // 2 (power of 1/2 is the same as a square root, that's maths)
	alert( 8 ** (1/3) ); // 2 (power of 1/3 is the same as a cubic root)

## [Increment/decrement](https://javascript.info/operators#increment-decrement)

`Increment/decrement can be applied only to a variable. An attempt to use it on a value like 5++ will give an error.`

	 “postfix form”: counter++
	 “prefix form”: ++counter

`Operators ++/-- can be used inside an expression as well. Their precedence is higher than most other arithmetical operations.`

	The “one line – one action” style is advised


## [https://javascript.info/operators#bitwise-operators](https://javascript.info/operators#bitwise-operators)

Bitwise operators treat arguments as 32-bit integer numbers and work on the level of their binary representation.

These operators are not JavaScript-specific. They are supported in most programming languages.

The list of [Bitwise operators](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Bitwise_Operators):

	AND ( & )
	OR ( | )
	XOR ( ^ )
	NOT ( ~ )
	LEFT SHIFT ( << )
	RIGHT SHIFT ( >> )
	ZERO-FILL RIGHT SHIFT ( >>> )

## [Modify-in-place](https://javascript.info/operators#modify-in-place)

Short “modify-and-assign” operators exist for all arithmetical and bitwise operators: /=, -= etc

`Such operators have the same precedence as a normal assignment, so they run after most other calculations`

## [Comma](https://javascript.info/operators#comma)

The comma operator , is one of most rare and unusual operators. Sometimes it’s used to write shorter code, so we need to know it in order to understand what’s going on.

The comma operator allows us to evaluate several expressions, dividing them with a comma ,. Each of them is evaluated, but the result of only the last one is returned

	let a = (1 + 2, 3 + 4);
	alert( a ); // 7 (the result of 3 + 4)

Here, the first expression 1 + 2 is evaluated, and its result is thrown away, then 3 + 4 is evaluated and returned as the result

`Comma has a very low precedence`

__Please note that the comma operator has very low precedence, lower than =, so parentheses are important in the example above.__

Without them: a = 1 + 2, 3 + 4 evaluates + first, summing the numbers into a = 3, 7, then the assignment operator = assigns a = 3, and then the number after the comma 7 is not processed anyhow, so it’s ignored

## Usage:

	// three operations in one line
	for (a = 1, b = 3, c = a * b; a < 10; a++) {
	 ...
	}

