# [Comparisons](https://javascript.info/comparison)

## [Boolean is the result](https://javascript.info/comparison#boolean-is-the-result)

## [String Comparison](https://javascript.info/comparison#string-comparison)

To see which string is greater than the other, the so-called “dictionary” or “lexicographical” order is used.

In other words, strings are compared letter-by-letter.

For example:

	alert( 'Z' > 'A' ); // true
	alert( 'Glow' > 'Glee' ); // true
	alert( 'Bee' > 'Be' ); // true

## Not a real dictionary, but Unicode order
The comparison algorithm given above is roughly equivalent to the one used in book dictionaries or phone books. But it’s not exactly the same.

For instance, case matters. A capital letter "A" is not equal to the lowercase "a". Which one is greater? Actually, the lowercase "a" is. Why? Because the lowercase character has a greater index in the internal encoding table (Unicode).

## [Comparison of different types](https://javascript.info/comparison#comparison-of-different-types)

When compared values belong to different types, they are converted to numbers.

For example:

	alert( '2' > 1 ); // true, string '2' becomes a number 2
	alert( '01' == 1 ); // true, string '01' becomes a number 1

For boolean values, true becomes 1 and false becomes 0, that’s why:

	alert( true == 1 ); // true
	alert( false == 0 ); // true

## A funny consequence

It is possible that at the same time:

Two values are equal.
One of them is true as a boolean and the other one is false as a boolean.

	let a = 0;
	alert( Boolean(a) ); // false

	let b = "0";
	alert( Boolean(b) ); // true

	alert(a == b); // true!

From JavaScript’s standpoint that’s quite normal. An equality check converts using the numeric conversion (hence "0" becomes 0), while Boolean conversion uses another set of rules.

## [Strict quality](https://javascript.info/comparison#strict-equality)

A regular equality check == has a problem. It cannot differ 0 from false:

	alert( 0 == false ); // true

The same thing with an empty string:

	alert( '' == false ); // true

That’s because operands of different types are converted to a number by the equality operator ==. An empty string, just like false, becomes a zero.

What to do if we’d like to differentiate 0 from false?

`A strict equality operator === checks the equality without type conversion.`

In other words, if a and b are of different types, then a === b immediately returns false without an attempt to convert them.

Let’s try it:
There also exists a “strict non-equality” operator !==, as an analogy for !=.

The strict equality check operator is a bit longer to write, but makes it obvious what’s going on and leaves less space for errors.

## [Comparison with null and undefined](https://javascript.info/comparison#comparison-with-null-and-undefined)

Let’s see more edge cases.

There’s a non-intuitive behavior when null or undefined are compared with other values.

For a strict equality check ===
These values are different, because each of them belongs to a separate type of its own.

	alert( null === undefined ); // false

For a non-strict check ==
There’s a special rule. These two are a “sweet couple”: they equal each other (in the sense of ==), but not any other value.

	alert( null == undefined ); // true

For maths and other comparisons < > <= >=
Values null/undefined are converted to a number: null becomes 0, while undefined becomes NaN.

## Now let’s see funny things that happen when we apply those rules. And, what’s more important, how to not fall into a trap with these features.

Let’s compare null with a zero:

	alert( null > 0 );  // (1) false
	alert( null == 0 ); // (2) false
	alert( null >= 0 ); // (3) true

Yeah, mathematically that’s strange. The last result states that "null is greater than or equal to zero". Then one of the comparisons above must be correct, but they are both false.

The reason is that an equality check == and comparisons > < >= <= work differently. Comparisons convert null to a number, hence treat it as 0. That’s why (3) null >= 0 is true and (1) null > 0 is false.

`On the other hand, the equality check == for undefined and null is defined such that, without any conversions, they equal each other and don’t equal anything else. That’s why (2) null == 0 is false.`

## [An incomparable undefined](https://javascript.info/comparison#an-incomparable-undefined)

The value undefined shouldn’t participate in comparisons at all:

	alert( undefined > 0 ); // false (1)
	alert( undefined < 0 ); // false (2)
	alert( undefined == 0 ); // false (3)

Why does it dislike a zero so much? Always false!

We’ve got these results because:

	Comparisons (1) and (2) return false because undefined gets converted to NaN. And `NaN is a special numeric value which returns false for all comparisons.`

	The equality check (3) returns false, because undefined only equals null and no other value.


## [Evade problems](https://javascript.info/comparison#evade-problems)

Why did we observe these examples? Should we remember these peculiarities all the time? Well, not really. Actually, these tricky things will gradually become familiar over time, but there’s a solid way to evade any problems with them.

Just treat any comparison with undefined/null except the strict equality === with exceptional care.

Don’t use comparisons >= > < <= with a variable which may be null/undefined, unless you are really sure what you’re doing. If a variable can have such values, then check for them separately.

## Summary

1. Comparison operators return a logical value.
2. Strings are compared letter-by-letter in the “dictionary” order.
When values of different types are compared, they get converted to numbers (with the exclusion of a strict equality check).
3. Values null and undefined equal == each other and do not equal any other value.
4. Be careful when using comparisons like > or < with variables that can occasionally be null/undefined. Making a separate check for null/undefined is a good idea.

## Example

	undefined == null => true `Values null and undefined equal each other only.`
	undefined === null => false `Strict equality is strict. Different types from both sides lead to false.`
	null == "\n0\n" => false `Values null and undefined equal each other only.`
	null === +"\n0\n" => false `Strict equality of different types.`

why "2">"12" is true?

Because you have a string on each side and a string comparison is used. If one of the two strings was a number than the result was going to be false because the string was going to be converted to a number.(http://disq.us/p/1pib46u)

[that when it gets true once, it returns.](http://disq.us/p/1xcow42)