# [Logical operators](https://javascript.info/logical-operators)

There are three logical operators in JavaScript: || (OR), && (AND), ! (NOT).

## [|| (OR)](https://javascript.info/logical-operators#or)

In classical programming, logical OR is meant to manipulate boolean values only. If any of its arguments are true, then it returns true, otherwise it returns false.

## OR seeks the first truthy value

Given multiple OR’ed values:

	result = value1 || value2 || value3;
The OR || operator does the following:


1. Evaluate operands from left to right.
2. For each operand, convert it to boolean. If the result is true, 
3. then stop and return the original value of that operand.

If all other operands have been assessed (i.e. all were false), return the last operand.

A value is returned in its original form, without the conversion.

In other words, a chain of OR "||" returns the first truthy value or the last one if no such value is found.

# Applications of ||

1. Getting the first truthy value from the list of variables or expressions.

	let currentUser = null;
	let defaultUser = "John";

	let name = currentUser || defaultUser || "unnamed";

	alert( name ); // selects "John" – the first truthy value

2. Short-circuit evaluation.

		let x;
		true || (x = 1);
		alert(x); // undefined, because (x = 1) not evaluated

## [&& (AND)](https://javascript.info/logical-operators#and)

## [AND seeks the first falsy value](https://javascript.info/logical-operators#and-seeks-the-first-falsy-value)

Given multiple AND’ed values:

	result = value1 && value2 && value3;
The AND && operator does the following:

1. Evaluate operands from left to right.
2. For each operand, convert it to a boolean. If the result is false, stop and return the original value of that operand.
3. If all other operands have been assessed (i.e. all were truthy), return the last operand.

In other words, AND returns the first falsy value or the last value if none were found.

`The rules above are similar to OR. The difference is that AND returns the first falsy value while OR returns the first truthy one.`

	// if the first operand is truthy,
	// AND returns the second operand:
	alert( 1 && 0 ); // 0
	alert( 1 && 5 ); // 5

	// if the first operand is falsy,
	// AND returns it. The second operand is ignored
	alert( null && 5 ); // null
	alert( 0 && "no matter what" ); // 0

## Precedence of AND && is higher than OR ||

The precedence of AND && operator is higher than OR ||.

So the code a && b || c && d is essentially the same as if && were in parentheses: (a && b) || (c && d).

## [!(NOT)](https://javascript.info/logical-operators#not)

The operator accepts a single argument and does the following:

Converts the operand to boolean type: true/false.
Returns an inverse value.

	alert( !true ); // false
	alert( !0 ); // true


A double NOT !! is sometimes used for converting a value to boolean type:

	alert( !!"non-empty string" ); // true
	alert( !!null ); // false

There’s a little more verbose way to do the same thing – a built-in Boolean function:

	alert( Boolean("non-empty string") ); // true
	alert( Boolean(null) ); // false

The precedence of NOT ! is the highest of all logical operators, so it always executes first, before any &&, ||.