# [Code Structure](https://javascript.info/structure)

### [Semicolons](https://javascript.info/structure#semicolon)

A semicolon may be omitted in most cases when a line break exists.

Here JavaScript interprets the line break as an “implicit” semicolon. That’s also called an [automatic semicolon insertion](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-automatic-semicolon-insertion)

__But there are situations where JavaScript “fails” to assume a semicolon where it is really needed.__

For example:

alert("There will be an error")

[1, 2].forEach(alert)


### It’s recommended to put semicolons between statements even if they are separated by newlines. This rule is widely adopted by the community. Let’s note once again – it is possible to leave out semicolons most of the time. But it’s safer – especially for a beginner – to use them.

### [Comments](https://javascript.info/structure#comments)

Comments can be put into any place of the script. They don’t affect the execution because the engine simply ignores them.

One-line comments start with two forward slash characters //

Multiline comments start with a forward slash and an asterisk /* and end with an asterisk and a forward slash */


__Nested comments are not supported!__
There may not be /* ... * / inside another /* ... * /
Such code will die with an error.

## Note

Please, don’t hesitate to comment your code.

Comments increase the overall code footprint, but that’s not a problem at all. There are many tools which minify the code before publishing to the production server. They remove comments, so they don’t appear in the working scripts. Therefore comments do not have any negative effects on production at all.