# [Variables](https://javascript.info/variables)

## [A variable](https://javascript.info/variables#a-variable)

A variable is a “named storage” for data. We can use variables to store goodies, visitors and other data.

To create a variable in JavaScript, we need to use the let keyword.

We can also declare multiple variables in one line:

	let user = 'John', age = 25, message = 'Hello';

That might seem shorter, but it’s not recommended. For the sake of better readability, please use a single line per variable.

`The multiline variant is a bit longer, but easier to read:`

	let user = 'John';
	let age = 25;
	let message = 'Hello';

Some people also write many variables like that:

	let user = 'John',
	  age = 25,
	  message = 'Hello';

…Or even in the “comma-first” style:

	let user = 'John'
	  , age = 25
	  , message = 'Hello';


## Functional languages

It may be interesting to know that there also exist functional programming languages that forbid changing a variable value. For example, Scala or Erlang.

In such languages, once the value is stored “in the box”, it’s there forever. If we need to store something else, the language forces us to create a new box (declare a new variable). We can’t reuse the old one.

Though it may seem a little bit odd at first sight, these languages are quite capable of serious development. More than that, there are areas like parallel computations where this limitation confers certain benefits. Studying such a language (even if not planning to use it soon) is recommended to broaden the mind.

## [Variable Naming](https://javascript.info/variables#variable-naming)

There are two limitations for a variable name in JavaScript:

`The name must contain only letters, digits, symbols $ and _.
The first character must not be a digit.`

	When the name contains multiple words, camelCase is commonly used. 

// a hyphen '-' is not allowed in the name

`JavaScript is Case sensitive i.e. Case matters: Variables named apple and AppLE – are two different variables.`

## Non-English letters are allowed, but not recommended
It is possible to use any language, including cyrillic letters or even hieroglyphs

Technically, there is no error here, such names are allowed, but there is an international tradition to use English in variable names. Even if we’re writing a small script, it may have a long life ahead. People from other countries may need to read it some time.

## Reserved names
There is a [list of reserved words](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#Keywords), which cannot be used as variable names, because they are used by the language itself.

For example, words `let, class, return, function` are reserved.

## An assignment without use strict
Normally, we need to define a variable before using it. But in the old times, it was technically possible to create a variable by a mere assignment of the value, without let. This still works now if we don’t put use strict. The behavior is kept for compatibility with old scripts.

## [Constants](https://javascript.info/variables#constants)

To declare a constant (unchanging) variable, one can use const instead of let

Variables declared using const are called “constants”. They cannot be changed. An attempt to do it would cause an error

When a programmer is sure that the variable should never change, they can use const to guarantee it, and also to clearly show that fact to everyone.

## [Uppercase constants](https://javascript.info/variables#uppercase-constants)

There is a widespread practice to use constants as aliases for difficult-to-remember values that are known prior to execution.

Such constants are named using capital letters and underscores.

	const COLOR_RED = "#F00";
	const COLOR_GREEN = "#0F0";
	const COLOR_BLUE = "#00F";
	const COLOR_ORANGE = "#FF7F00";

	// ...when we need to pick a color
	let color = COLOR_ORANGE;
	alert(color); // #FF7F00

Benefits:

COLOR_ORANGE is much easier to remember than "#FF7F00".
It is much easier to mistype in "#FF7F00" than in COLOR_ORANGE.
When reading the code, COLOR_ORANGE is much more meaningful than #FF7F00.
When should we use capitals for a constant, and when should we name them normally? Let’s make that clear.

Being a “constant” just means that the value never changes. But there are constants that are known prior to execution (like a hexadecimal value for red), and there are those that are calculated in run-time, during the execution, but do not change after the assignment.

For instance:	

const pageLoadTime = `/* time taken by a webpage to load */`;

The value of pageLoadTime is not known prior to the page load, so it’s named normally. But it’s still a constant, because it doesn’t change after assignment.

`In other words, capital-named constants are only used as aliases for “hard-coded” values.`

## [Name things right](https://javascript.info/variables#name-things-right)

Please name the variables sensibly. Take time to think if needed.

Variable naming is one of the most important and complex skills in programming. A quick glance at variable names can reveal which code is written by a beginner and which by an experienced developer.

In a real project, most of the time is spent on modifying and extending the existing code base, rather than writing something completely separate from scratch. And when we return to the code after some time of doing something else, it’s much easier to find information that is well-labeled. Or, in other words, when the variables have good names.

Please spend some time thinking about the right name for a variable before declaring it. This will repay you a lot.

## Some good-to-follow rules are:

1. Use human-readable names like userName or shoppingCart.
2. Stay away from abbreviations or short names like a, b, c, unless you really know what you’re doing.
3. Make the name maximally descriptive and concise. Examples of bad names are data and value. Such a name says nothing. It is only ok to use them if it’s exceptionally obvious from the context which data or value is meant.
4. Agree on terms within your team and in your own mind. If a site visitor is called a “user” then we should name related variables like currentUser or newUser, but not currentVisitor or a newManInTown.

## Reuse or create?

And the last note. There are some lazy programmers who, instead of declaring a new variable, tend to reuse the existing ones.

As a result, the variable is like a box where people throw different things without changing the sticker. What is inside it now? Who knows… We need to come closer and check.

Such a programmer saves a little bit on variable declaration, but loses ten times more on debugging the code.

`An extra variable is good, not evil.`

_Modern JavaScript minifiers and browsers optimize code well enough, so it won’t create performance issues. Using different variables for different values can even help the engine to optimize._
