# [Coding Style](https://javascript.info/coding-style)

Coding style is the art of programming - to take complex task and code it in a way that is both correct and human-readable.

## [Cheatsheet](https://javascript.info/article/coding-style/code-style@2x.png)

In summary:

1. For very short code, one line is acceptable. For example: if (cond) return null.
2. But a separate line for each statement in brackets is usually easier to read.

Line Length
No one likes to read a long horizontal line of code. It’s best practice to split them up and limit the length of your lines.

The maximum line length should be agreed upon at the team-level. It’s usually `80 or 120` characters.


## Indents

1. Horizontal indents: 2 or 4 spaces.
2. Vertical indents: empty lines for splitting code into logical blocks.

Even a single function can often be divided into logical blocks. In the example below, the initialization of variables, the main loop and returning the result are split vertically:

	function pow(x, n) {
	  let result = 1;
	  //              <--
	  for (let i = 0; i < n; i++) {
	    result *= x;
	  }
	  //              <--
	  return result;
	}

## Semicolons

Insert an extra newline where it helps to make the code more readable. There should not be more than nine lines of code without a vertical indentation.

A semicolon should be present after each statement, even if it could possibly be skipped.

There are languages where a semicolon is truly optional and it is rarely used. In JavaScript, though, there are cases where a line break is not interpreted as a semicolon, leaving the code vulnerable to errors.

_`As you become more mature as a programmer, you may choose a no-semicolon style like StandardJS`. Until then, it’s best to use semicolons to avoid possible pitfalls._

## Nesting Levels

Try to avoid nesting code too many levels deep.

Sometimes it’s a good idea to use the “continue” directive in a loop to avoid extra nesting.

For example, instead of adding a nested if conditional like this:

	for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
	  if (cond) {
	    ... // <- one more nesting level
	  }
	}

We can write:


	for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
	  if (!cond) continue;
	  ...  // <- no extra nesting level
	}

A similar thing can be done with if/else and return.

For example, two constructs below are identical.

Option 1:

	function pow(x, n) {
	  if (n < 0) {
	    alert("Negative 'n' not supported");
	  } else {
	    let result = 1;
	    for (let i = 0; i < n; i++) {
	      result *= x;
	    }
	    return result;
	  }
	}

Option 2:

	function pow(x, n) {
	  if (n < 0) {
	    alert("Negative 'n' not supported");
	    return;
	  }
	  let result = 1;
	  for (let i = 0; i < n; i++) {
	    result *= x;
	  }
	  return result;
	}

The second one is more readable because the “edge case” of n < 0 is handled early on. Once the check is done we can move on to the “main” code flow without the need for additional nesting.

## [Function Placement](https://javascript.info/coding-style#function-placement)

Note:

Most of time, the second variant is preferred.

That’s because when reading code, we first want to know what it does. If the code goes first, then it provides that information. Then, maybe we won’t need to read the functions at all, especially if their names are descriptive of what they actually do.

## [Style Guides](https://javascript.info/coding-style#style-guides)

A style guide contains general rules about “how to write” code, e.g. which quotes to use, how many spaces to indent, where to put line breaks, etc. A lot of minor things.

When all members of a team use the same style guide the code tends looks uniform, regardless of which team member wrote it.

Of course, a team can always write their own style guide. Most of the time though, there’s no need to. There are many existing tried and true options to choose from, so adopting one of these is usually your best bet.

Some popular choices:

[Google JavaScript Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javascriptguide.xml)
[Airbnb JavaScript Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)
[Idiomatic.JS](https://github.com/rwaldron/idiomatic.js)
[StandardJS](https://standardjs.com/)
(plus many more)

If you’re a novice developer, start with the cheatsheet at the beginning of this chapter. Once you’ve mastered that you can browse other style guides to pick up common principles and decide which one you like best.

## Automated Linters

Linters are tools that can automatically check the style of your code and make suggestions for refactoring.

The great thing about them is that style-checking can also find some bugs, like typos in variable or function names. Because of this feature, installing a linter is recommended even if you don’t want to stick to one particular “code style”.

Here are the most well-known linting tools:

[JSLint](http://www.jslint.com/) – one of the first linters.
[JSHint](http://www.jshint.com/) – more settings than JSLint.
[ESLint](http://eslint.org/) – probably the newest one.

## Summary 

When we think about writing “better” code, the questions we should ask are, “What makes the code more readable and easier to understand?” and “What can help us avoid errors?” These are the main things to keep in mind when choosing and debating code styles.

### Reading popular style guides will allow you to keep up to date with the latest ideas about code style trends and best practices.