# [Automated testing with mocha](https://javascript.info/testing-mocha)

## Why we need tests?

When we write a function, we can usually imagine what it should do: which parameters give which results.

During development, we can check the function by running it and comparing the outcome with the expected one. For instance, we can do it in the console.

If something is wrong – then we fix the code, run again, check the result – and so on till it works.

But such manual “re-runs” are imperfect.

## When testing a code by manual re-runs, it’s easy to miss something.

For instance, we’re creating a function f. Wrote some code, testing: f(1) works, but f(2) doesn’t work. We fix the code and now f(2) works. Looks complete? But we forgot to re-test f(1). That may lead to an error.

That’s very typical. When we develop something, we keep a lot of possible use cases in mind. But it’s hard to expect a programmer to check all of them manually after every change. So it becomes easy to fix one thing and break another one.

**Automated testing means that tests are written separately, in addition to the code. They can be executed easily and check all the main use cases.**

## Behavior Driven Development (BDD)

Let’s use a technique named [Behavior Driven Development](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior-driven_development) or, in short, BDD. That approach is used among many projects. BDD is not just about testing. That’s more.

BDD is three things in one: tests AND documentation AND examples.

Enough words. Let’s see the example.

## The spec in action

Here in the tutorial we’ll be using the following JavaScript libraries for tests:

1. [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) – the core framework: it provides common testing functions including describe and it and the main function that runs tests.
2. [Chai](http://chaijs.com/) – the library with many assertions. It allows to use a lot of different assertions, for now we need only assert.equal.
3. [Sinon](http://sinonjs.org/) – a library to spy over functions, emulate built-in functions and more, we’ll need it much later.
4. For the future, let’s note that there are advanced test-runners, like [karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/) and others. So it’s generally not a problem to setup many different tests.

## Summary
In BDD, the spec goes first, followed by implementation. At the end we have both the spec and the code.

The spec can be used in three ways:

1. Tests guarantee that the code works correctly.
2. Docs – the titles of describe and it tell what the function does.
3. Examples – the tests are actually working examples showing how a function can be used.

With the spec, we can safely improve, change, even rewrite the function from scratch and make sure it still works right.

That’s especially important in large projects when a function is used in many places. When we change such a function, there’s just no way to manually check if every place that uses it still works right.

Without tests, people have two ways:

1. To perform the change, no matter what. And then our users meet bugs and report them. If we can afford that.
2. Or people become afraid to modify such functions, if the punishment for errors is harsh. Then it becomes old, overgrown with cobwebs, no one wants to get into it, and that’s not good.

## Automatically tested code is contrary to that!

If the project is covered with tests, there’s just no such problem. We can run tests and see a lot of checks made in a matter of seconds.

## Besides, a well-tested code has better architecture.

Naturally, that’s because it’s easier to change and improve it. But not only that.

To write tests, the code should be organized in such a way that every function has a clearly described task, well-defined input and output. That means a good architecture from the beginning.

In real life that’s sometimes not that easy. Sometimes it’s difficult to write a spec before the actual code, because it’s not yet clear how it should behave. But in general writing tests makes development faster and more stable.