# [Methods of primitives](https://javascript.info/primitives-methods)

JavaScript allows us to work with primitives (strings, numbers, etc.) as if they were objects.

They also provide methods to call as such. We will study those soon, but first we’ll see how it works because, of course, primitives are not objects (and here we will make it even clearer).

Let’s look at the key distinctions between primitives and objects.

A primitive

1. Is a value of a primitive type.
2. There are 6 primitive types: string, number, boolean, symbol, null and undefined.

An object

1. Is capable of storing multiple values as properties.
2. Can be created with {}, for instance: {name: "John", age: 30}. There are other kinds of objects in JavaScript; functions, for example, are objects.

One of the best things about objects is that we can store a function as one of its properties.

	let john = {
	  name: "John",
	  sayHi: function() {
	    alert("Hi buddy!");
	  }
	};

	john.sayHi(); // Hi buddy!

So here we’ve made an object john with the method sayHi.

Many built-in objects already exist, such as those that `work with dates, errors, HTML elements, etc`. They have different properties and methods.

But, these features come with a cost!

Objects are “heavier” than primitives. They require additional resources to support the internal machinery. But as properties and methods are very useful in programming, JavaScript engines try to optimize them to reduce the additional burden.

# A [primitive as an object](https://javascript.info/primitives-methods#a-primitive-as-an-object)

Simple, right? Here’s what actually happens in str.toUpperCase():

1. The string str is a primitive. So in the moment of accessing its property, a special object is created that knows the value of the string, and has useful methods, like toUpperCase().
2. That method runs and returns a new string (shown by alert).
3. The special object is destroyed, leaving the primitive str alone.

So primitives can provide methods, but they still remain lightweight.

The JavaScript engine highly optimizes this process. It may even skip the creation of the extra object at all. But it must still adhere to the specification and behave as if it creates one.

## null/undefined have no methods

The special primitives null and undefined are exceptions. They have no corresponding “wrapper objects” and provide no methods. In a sense, they are “the most primitive”.

An attempt to access a property of such value would give the error:

	alert(null.test); // error

