# [Object methods, "this"](https://javascript.info/object-methods)

Objects are usually created to represent entities of the real world, like users, orders and so on:

Actions are represented in JavaScript by functions in properties.

A function that is the property of an object is called its method.

## Object-oriented programming

When we write our code using objects to represent entities, that’s called an [object-oriented programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming), in short: “OOP”.

OOP is a big thing, an interesting science of its own. How to choose the right entities? How to organize the interaction between them? That’s architecture, and there are great books on that topic, like “Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software” by E.Gamma, R.Helm, R.Johnson, J.Vissides or “Object-Oriented Analysis and Design with Applications” by G.Booch, and more. We’ll scratch the surface of that topic later in the chapter [Objects, classes, inheritance](https://javascript.info/object-oriented-programming).

# Method shorthand

There exists a shorter syntax for methods in an object literal:

	// these objects do the same

	let user = {
	  sayHi: function() {
	    alert("Hello");
	  }
	};

	// method shorthand looks better, right?
	let user = {
	  sayHi() { // same as "sayHi: function()"
	    alert("Hello");
	  }
	};

As demonstrated, we can omit "function" and just write sayHi().

To tell the truth, the notations are not fully identical. There are subtle differences related to object inheritance (to be covered later), but for now they do not matter. In almost all cases the shorter syntax is preferred.

# “this” in methods

It’s common that an object method needs to access the information stored in the object to do its job.

For instance, the code inside user.sayHi() may need the name of the user.

To access the object, a method can use the `this` keyword.

The value of this is the object “before dot”, the one used to call the method.

For instance:

	let user = {
	  name: "John",
	  age: 30,
	  sayHi() {
	    alert(this.name);
	  }
	};
	user.sayHi(); // John

Technically, it’s also possible to access the object without this, by referencing it via the outer variable:

	let user = {
	  name: "John",
	  age: 30,
	  sayHi() {
	    alert(user.name); // "user" instead of "this"
	  }
	};

…But such code is unreliable. If we decide to copy user to another variable, e.g. admin = user and overwrite user with something else, then it will access the wrong object.

That’s demonstrated below:

	let user = {
	  name: "John",
	  age: 30,
	  sayHi() {
	    alert( user.name ); // leads to an error
	  }
	};
	let admin = user;
	user = null; // overwrite to make things obvious
	admin.sayHi(); // Whoops! inside sayHi(), the old name is used! error!

If we used this.name instead of user.name inside the alert, then the code would work.

# “this” is not bound

In JavaScript this is “free”, its value is evaluated at call-time and does not depend on where the method was declared, but rather on what’s the object “before the dot”.

The concept of run-time evaluated this has both pluses and minuses. On the one hand, a function can be reused for different objects. On the other hand, greater flexibility opens a place for mistakes.

Here our position is not to judge whether this language design decision is good or bad. We’ll understand how to work with it, how to get benefits and evade problems.

# Internals: Reference Type

[Reference Type](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-reference-specification-type)

# Arrow functions have no “this”

Arrow functions are special: they don’t have their “own” this. If we reference this from such a function, it’s taken from the outer “normal” function.

For instance, here arrow() uses this from the outer user.sayHi() method:

	 let user = {
	  firstName: "Ilya",
	  sayHi() {
	    let arrow = () => alert(this.firstName);
	    arrow();
	  }
	};

user.sayHi(); // Ilya
That’s a special feature of arrow functions, it’s useful when we actually do not want to have a separate this, but rather to take it from the outer context. Later in the chapter [Arrow functions revisited](https://javascript.info/arrow-functions) we’ll go more deeply into arrow functions.